R4OS network services
=====================

SSHD provides shell, exec, SFTP and classic SCP through TCPSVC and R4SYS.
FTPSVC provides control and active/passive transfer through the same network
and file facades. RDPSVC consumes R4DESK frames and input and implements the
RDP/TLS/CredSSP protocol path in userland. None of these protocols has a
kernel or host-side production fallback.

SSHD keeps connection IDs, packet buffers, sequence numbers and response
storage with the session worker until Join. Independent workers submit
TCPSVC operations without a process-wide network lock; each asynchronous
SDK request owns its response and is drained before its stack storage ends.
The main loop owns Accept and may ask TCPSVC to abort a stalled connection;
it never becomes a second writer of that session's payload. Existing polling
budgets, consume-safe reads and write-sequence reconciliation remain active.

The SSH key-exchange preparation returns a session-owned reply and derived
intermediate values. Its computation lock is released on every return,
before sending the reply or a disconnect. Packet computation retains its
short lock scope; no TCP service wait occurs under that lock.

Kernel service IPC uses five fixed BSP workers. Echo, DHCP, DNS, TCP and UDP
have separate lanes; additional channels share these lanes round-robin.
Each channel retains serial handler execution and each worker has its own
response buffer. A blocked DNS lookup or TCP connect therefore leaves the
other network channels available. Nested direct calls reject reentry into a
handler suspended on another worker; request and channel generations still
govern response publication, abandonment and queue-slot reuse.

FTPSVC multiplexes up to four control sessions cooperatively so GUI clients
can keep a directory-browsing session open while a second authenticated
session performs a transfer. Transfers themselves remain serialized, and the
single passive listener uses port 2020.

TCP service closes are nonblocking but graceful: the kernel retains an
unacknowledged final payload, sends FIN only after its ACK, and owns FIN
retransmission and bounded cleanup. An abort/reset is reserved for an explicit
abort or a failed close initiation. This is required for FTP clients that
reject a reset data channel even after the control channel reports success.

TCPSVC submits a normal write optimistically and enters its bounded deferred
poll path only after the kernel reports real backpressure. One service write
may therefore fill several MSS-sized wire segments while preserving exact
partial-write, deadline and close-after-data semantics. Its text status
includes the kernel's segment/byte, outstanding-data, pure-ACK and skipped-
poll counters; collecting them is a status operation, not per-write work.

The 0.74.3 hardware acceptance used FileZilla in the same LAN as the Lenovo.
Before the correction, LIST ended with `226 Directory send OK` but FileZilla
reported `ECONNABORTED`; after the graceful-close update, browsing completed.
FileZilla then exposed the former single-control-session limit by keeping its
browsing connection open while opening a second connection for a transfer.
FTPSVC 0.1.4 was installed through SYSUPD, the laptop was restarted, and the
user confirmed the resulting browsing and transfer behavior. No additional
agent-side FTP stress run was performed at the user's explicit request.

RDPSVC advertises only its productive NSCodec bitmap path. It requires the
matching Fast-Path and Set Surface Bits client capabilities and keeps
RLE16/Raw as the fallback when encoding fails or does not reduce the wire
payload. Stable recurring tiles may use negotiated Revision 3 bitmap-cache
publication followed by generation-validated MemBlt references; no cache
entry is trusted without a current RemoteFrame content check.

The system is single-user. The default login is:

```text
User:     r4os
Password: rosebud
```

These credentials provide interoperability, not security. Never forward SSH,
FTP, RDP or update-service ports to the public Internet or any untrusted
network.

File-transfer services may write ordinary files and the update inbox through
R4SYS. They do not replace protected system components directly; SYSUPD owns
verification, staging, rollback and activation.


TCP progress and facade response validation (0.78.58)
----------------------------------------------------
TCPSVC 0.1.6 keeps accepted write bytes even without the DATA flag; only reads
without a data body lose their data count. A deferred 3-of-8-byte write sends
one header-only reply with bytes=3 and retires its pending slot once.

Zig and C network facades check the service header identity, operation and
actual received length, then the protocol result magic/version. TCP/UDP reads
bound their copies by received bytes rather than buffer capacity. Empty,
short or mismatched responses cannot report success or invalidate a handle.
Send counts above the submitted length are rejected; a valid zero-byte UDP
result no longer fabricates full progress. A timed-out close retains its
handle so the same owner can retry a confirmed close.

TCPECHO 0.1.2 accumulates writes and the exact expected echo under a single
ten-second connect/write/read deadline. Would-block yields within that same
budget. Zero progress or a terminal result fails; the listener finishes a
partial write of the first chunk it received. Cleanup runs on all client
returns and reports an unconfirmed close.


Legacy TCP text reads (0.78.59)
-----------------------------
Kernel 0.1.127 keeps READ and ACCEPTREAD within the existing 64-KB service
worker stack. Each non-inline handler owns 3816 bytes of scratch for its
entire call, including waits. No shared scratch or larger task stack is used.
The 4072-byte IPC payload reserves 256 bytes for labels, decimal fields and
the last-error field (bounded to 32 bytes). Larger requests produce partial
reads and leave the remaining TCP data available to subsequent reads.

The decimal bytes field counts the exact raw data bytes following data=;
embedded zero bytes are retained. The response header length includes all
metadata and data. Text consumers must use the explicit lengths rather than
NUL termination when receiving binary data. Structured operations are unchanged.


SEND/RECV transfer ownership (0.78.60)
------------------------------------
SEND 0.1.2 reads its maximum 512-KB source once into a heap-owned snapshot.
The advertised length/checksum and all normal/resumed/retried sends use that
same snapshot. Changes to the source after capture cannot change sent bytes;
a size change observed while capturing rejects the snapshot. At the maximum,
source data reads drop from 1048576 to 524288 bytes on the first attempt.

RECV 0.1.2 creates a private sibling 8.3 stage without truncating or deleting
an existing file. Backend name collation excludes target aliases. It writes
through the existing stream owner, checks the complete checksum, confirms
finish/flush and uses Files.replaceAtomic. Failed receive/write/checksum/
finish paths abort only that exact stream and keep the original destination.
Confirmed replacement may remove its own backup; ambiguous publication
failures preserve recovery paths and report their names. No stronger
power-loss guarantee than the existing filesystem publisher is introduced.

Resume copies the existing prefix into the private stage, advertises its
length and requests only the suffix. Failure keeps that confirmed prefix;
new uncommitted bytes are discarded. NOOVERWRITE also rejects normal packets
when the receiver enables RESUME. Explicit resume may complete an existing
partial file. A missing NOOVERWRITE target uses the existing create-only,
retained-stream ownership path. Missing zero-length resume targets are created.

Both apps check decimal range before multiply/add, preserving R4SEND1 and
R4SEND2 framing and the existing checksum. No wire format or API layout changes.

RECV opens its own listener before Accept and closes it on every return.
The waiting message is emitted after successful listener admission.
